1. Create and Navigate to Folder
Create a directory for the experiment and move into it:
mkdir Git_Lab_Experiment1
cd Git_Lab_Experiment1
2. Initialize the Repository
Initialize a new Git repository, which creates the hidden .git tracking folder:
git init
3. List Files
Verify the directory contents, including hidden files:Bashls -a
4. Configure Git (First-Time Setup)
Set your global username and email address:
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email your_email@example.com
5. Create a File
Generate a README.txt file with content:Bashecho "This is my first Git experiment" > README.txt
6. Check File Status
View the state of the working directory and staging area to see untracked files:
git status
7. Add Files to Staging Area
Mark the file to be included in the next commit:
git add README.txt
8. Commit the Files
Save the changes permanently to the repository with a descriptive message:
git commit -m "Initial commit"
9. Modify and Update
Modify the existing file and commit the new changes:
echo "Git tracks file changes" >> README.txt
git add README.txt
git commit -m "Updated README file"
10. View Commit History
Show the history of all commits made in the repository:
git log

git remote add origin https://github.com/YourUsername/git-lab-demo.git
4. Push Your Changes 

Upload your local commits to the remote master branch:

Bash
git push -u origin master



Aim:
To understand the basics of Git and learn how to create and manage a local Git repository by performing fundamental operations such as initializing a repository, adding files, committing changes, and viewing commit history.

Theory:


Git: A distributed version control system used to track changes in source code, allowing developers to maintain multiple versions and collaborate efficiently.


Local Repository: A storage location on the user's machine containing project files and their complete change history.


Workflow Stages: * Working Directory: Where files are created or modified.


Staging Area (Index): Temporarily holds files marked for the next commit.


Repository: Permanently stores snapshots of the project as commits.
